docs: Amend metrics doc + diagrams (#396)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/04-metrics.md

1. The metric data is consumed using the backend system.

### Metric Gateway

In a Kyma cluster, the metric gateway is the central component to which all components can send their individual metrics. The gateway collects, enriches, and dispatches the data to the configured backend. The gateway is based on the [OTel Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) and comes with a concept of pipelines consisting of receivers, processors, and exporters, with which you can flexibly plug pipelines together (see [Configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/). Kyma's MetricPipeline provides a hardened setup of an OTel Collector and also abstracts the underlying pipeline concept. Such abstraction has the following benefits:

> 

Author: I opted for full stops. Thanks for spotting it!

The downside is that only a limited set of features is available. If you want to avoid this downside, bring your own collector setup. The current feature set focuses on providing the full configurability of backends integrated by OTLP.

### Metric Agent

If a MetricPipeline configures a feature in the `input.application` section, an additional DaemonSet is deployed acting as an agent. The agent is also based on an [OTel Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) and encompasses the collection and conversion of Prometheus-based metrics. Hereby, the workload puts an `prometheus.io/scrape` annotation on the specification of the Pod or service, and the agent collects it. The agent pushes all data in OTLP to the central gateway.

> ### Telemetry Manager

Author: Oh lord, the whole diagram is weirdly wonky. Thanks for spotting this.

In the following steps, you can see how to construct and deploy a typical MetricPipeline. Learn more about the available [parameters and attributes](resources/05-metricpipeline.md).

### Step 1. Create a MetricPipeline

To ship metrics to a new OTLP output, create a resource of the kind `MetricPipeline`. Default protocol is GRPC, but you can choose HTTP instead.

This configures the underlying OTel Collector of the gateway with a pipeline for metrics. The receiver of the pipeline will be of the OTLP type and be accessible using the `telemetry-otlp-metrics` service. As an exporter, an `otlp` or an `otlphttp` exporter is used, depending on the configured protocol. Ensure that the correct port is configured as part of the endpoint. Typically, port `4317` is used for GRPC and port `4318` for HTTP.

<div tabs>
  <details>
    <summary>GRPC</summary>
    For GRPC, use:

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: telemetry.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
      kind: MetricPipeline
      metadata:
        name: backend
      spec:
        output:
          otlp:
            endpoint:
              value: https://backend.example.com:4317
      ```
  </details>
  <details>
    <summary>HTTP</summary>

>     To use the HTTP protocol, use the `protocol` attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To use the HTTP protocol, use the <code>protocol</code> attribute:
```

>     To use the HTTP protocol, use the `protocol` attribute:

Reviewer: HTML and Markdown do not work together.

  
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: telemetry.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
    kind: MetricPipeline
    metadata:
      name: backend
    spec:
      output:
        otlp:
          protocol: http
          endpoint:
            value: https://backend.example.com:4318
    ```
  </details>

> </div>

Author: I got the number of blank spaces wrong. Fixed it now :)

> The agent will configure the [kubletstatsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver) for the metric groups `pod` and `container`. With that, [system metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver/documentation.md) related to containers and pods will get collected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The agent configures the [kubletstatsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver) for the metric groups `pod` and `container`. With that, [system metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/kubeletstatsreceiver/documentation.md) related to containers and pods get collected.
```

## Limitations

The metric gateway setup is based on the following assumptions:

- The collector has no autoscaling options and has a limited resource setup of 1 CPU and 1 GiB memory.

> - Batching is enabled, and a batch will contain up to 512 metrics/batch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Batching is enabled, and a batch contains up to 512 metrics/batch.
```

Remedy:

1. Check which SDK version you are using for instrumentation.
2. Investigate whether it is compatible with the OTel collector version.
3. If required, upgrade to a supported SDK version.

### Log entry: Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint

Symptom: Custom metrics don't arrive at the destination and the OTel Collector produces log entries "Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint":

```bash
2023-08-29T09:53:07.123Z	warn	internal/transaction.go:111	Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint	{"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1693302787120, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"10.42.0.18:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
```

Cause: The workload is not configured to use 'STRICT' mTLS mode. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#step-4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).

Remedy: You can either set up 'STRICT' mTLS mode or HTTP scraping:
<div tabs>
  <details>
    <summary>Strict mTLS</summary>
    Configure the workload using 'STRICT' mTLS mode (for example, by applying a corresponding PeerAuthentication).
  </details>
  <details>
    <summary>HTTP scraping</summary>

>     Set up scraping through HTTP by applying the `prometheus.io/scheme=http` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Set up scraping through HTTP by applying the <code>prometheus.io/scheme=http</code> annotation.
```
